Hello, dear listener, and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bay, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast whose island home is far beyond the wave.
We will no longer roam.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm James, and I'm the sad remains of what was once a great and inhabited space beanbag that it's now just a whole lot of Styrofoam balls looking for a party for this one.
My keyword is being bad.
Don't cut.
All right.
So we are we are watching Space 1999 series one, episode 11.
It's Guardian of Piri, written by goodness knows whom, but I'm going to say Christopher Penfold.
I'm gonna tell you who it really was.
Yes, I know.
And directed by Charles Crichton, who also has a story this week.
And it's also an episode with the 1st appearance of Catherine Shell, which I was not expecting at all because I have kind of no memory of this at all.
It's the Catherine shop, but not the one you were expecting.
Exactly right.
So I think we can probably just go straight in.
So we've already used my original key word.
And so my key word is going to be ping-pong.
And the next time I say that word, I want you, Richard, and the viewers at home to press play.
So here we go.
Ping pong.
Me, me, me, me, me, me, me.
Clavia Spice.
And we're off so much Styrofoam. just the moon.
Hello, gorgeous main mission set.
Oh my god.
I spent so much time of this episode.
Like, I like this episode, just sort of going in.
I think it's really good.
But I did spend an awful lot of time just admiring how beautiful the set is here.
Do you know they only used one camera.
I'm just reading Zenia Merton's notes and she said it was only when the wonderful Charlie Crichton was on and directing us.
Um, you know, that he used all of those old healing techniques and it's a multicamera format in this episode.
You do notice the difference.
Also, look how gorgeous that. beautiful.
Also, we have random, tawny haired gentlemen who aren't Gareth Hunt, oddly enough.
Yeah, so this is Irving.
It's Pete Irving.
And something else.
I can't remember the name, so I will up in a minute.
Yes.
And he is not the person who was originally going who was originally going to play Pete Irving.
Originally that role was going to be Gareth Hunt.
Or as Charles Crichton had started calling him really by 5 PM that day.
Mike.
Yeah exactly.
Funnily enough, exactly the part he went to only a couple of months after doing this.
And you know what he'd done just 2 weeks before this?
Planet of the Spiders.
Yeah.
Jenny Lairds, yeah.
So this sort of weird ass chinless guy who plays Irving, who he ended up kind of saddled with, is nowhere as good as Gareth Hunk would have been.
Hasn't got a chin.
No, that's true.
But he doesn't have the balls, or at least he's flying rapidly towards them whilst preparing to be a Christianine thing.
Is this the best alien planetty type Maya Christmas window you've ever seen?
It's so great.
It was a freak show when we saw it.
I'm sure they did that Christmas window when I worked for David Jones. early 2000s.
I do remember this kind of go shtick back in the day.
Happy Mardi Gras, by the way, that's when we're recording.
Oh, they come, the computers come with wet wipes.
I love it.
They foresaw COVID before it happened.
Now, this, of course, is, if anyone remembers flight to Atlantica from Captain Scarlet.
It's exactly the same.
Or indeed, Brent, should we say it, Nathan?
side of paradise.
Have you covered that yet?
No, no, should we say Homer's Odyssey?
Yes, Odyssey Book 9.
Exactly.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
The Lotus eaters.
Take their tops off.
Well, yes, that is coming.
Or that mobile that you had when you were a child.
Yes.
Yes, yeah.
I mean, I think it's not a phone to the young listener.
It is really astounding, isn't it?
It's so weird.
Yes.
Oh, wonderful.
I mean, the planet's on Space 1999 are always like just...
The most delicious pizza you could ever...
Very strange.
And so this is all ping pong balls and kind of fuse wire and stuff.
Victor's punch party.
I really am sure I had that marble when I was a child.
And you get some proper biffo in this one, which is really nice. get some proper British smacking.
Yeah, yeah.
But, I mean, Catherine Shell looks amazing in it, and she's wearing hardly anything.
And yet, wait for season two.
How could they have taken that and stuck her in my geography teaches year 9 uniform?
I know.
What we mean, she had herpes too, but we were too polite to say.
We need to paint her ears brown.
And that's how we need all over our eye, bro.
Attach some caterpillars to our forehead.
Yeah, yeah.
How could they take a girl like that and then do that, Emma Porteus?
Yes, I'm looking at you.
Oh my god, what have they been living with all these years?
Oh, you saw what you did to octopussy.
All those, you know, red likero outfits.
Guest star, Catherine Cher. artist.
So, like, there is someone along with Irving, the guy in the other chair, and I spent some time wondering who he was.
He's much more visible when we turn up on the planet, but he was visible in that shot.
Um, and he plays another character who is called Bob or Bill or something.
Clute.
He is called Ed. Sorry.
Right.
Yeah, he's called Ed. And Ed is played by the guy who plays Winlet in The Seeds of Doom, which is our 1st Doctor Who reference, that he's the guy.
So all you need to do, you see him, you add a beard to him, and then you cover him in broccoli, and you'll recognise him immediately from Seeds of Doom.
Take a drink, Dylan.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But he wasn't the original guy to play that either because what ends up happening weirdly is that we get one shot with Gareth Hunt and someone completely different playing other Ed. And...
But it kind of almost works because, you know, they're all rushing back to the ships.
Yeah, points.
So it's like, it could be.
And then this random ass guy, because there's a lot of eagles in that.
Yeah.
I, um, I speculated, um, before recording that possibly that one shot of Gareth that we get might have been something to do with equity, i.e. contractual obligation.
He's turned up to do the job.
It's a speaking role. you know, you have to use the footage.
I don't know if that's the case because certainly there's been other things where actors have become unavailable and they've been available.
It doesn't work in film.
No, that's true.
Or, you know, a number of those examples of Doctor Who in the early 1980s where people wrote whole scripts and were paid out, but they never used any of them because they weren't workable in inverted commas.
I mean, it's just possible that Gareth Hunt is sexier and better than the guy who eventually played Irving.
And so they just used the one shot of him.
I've got a Gareth Hunter, might as well use him.
Yeah, exactly.
Just the one.
So we know who wrote this, don't we?
Oh, Victor, you're still in record.
I love Medical Centre.
Have you noticed how everyone's a bit fabulous in medical and a bit gorgeous?
I want to say it's LLB, but I don't believe it is.
No, because it's not the girl that plays the professor.
Oh, from the previous episode, the last episode that we saw.
I can't really see her face.
Yeah, yeah.
But she's one of the of the extras who survives to season two.
I mean, they're all so beautiful.
This is the one thing, I think, more than anything.
Alibi, I didn't think I got that right because I have a friend called Alibi, Alibi Parsons.
Oh, she plays the character Quantilibi.
Yeah, it's, you know, just how beautiful everyone is. like everyone's a model on this show.
Well, that's because of Sylvia and they actually were, which is what they do.
Even Barbara Bain's hair.
But you know, she's in trial of a time lord, don't you?
She is Matrona Carly.
No we all know. that right?
He's also in the bitch with Joan Collins.
Well, I think she's in alien aliens. and aliens?
correct.
She's in Holby 13?
Because he's in everyone, but yeah, she's still going.
But you know what?
Suzanne Roquette.
Oh, that's nice, Susan, okay.
That woman is dead.
Can I can I ask if you're having a blood transfusion and it stops?
you die?
Not generally not.
No.
Maybe she was kind of really super out of blood.
But Bob is really pissy in this scene.
Bob gets to shout.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, which I think he's been waiting 8 episodes.
Look, so bad.
Now, Jerry didn't wasn't comfortable with it and told them off in the way, only way that only Jerry, because he said, it looks too weird.
The set looks too weird.
But, but, but, but, um, when they sent it to processing, you know, at the Kodak processing labs, they said, this is absolutely the best thing you've sent us so far, it looks amazing.
Maze balls, I believe, is the term.
Right.
Back in the 1970s, amazing.
It does look incredible, doesn't it?
Like, it really is extraordinary and like nothing...
He's grasping his right now.
Oh my good. goodness I love that the monitors are monochrome blue.
Because it's still the 90s.
It makes sense.
Hey.
It's still the 90s.
They match Nick's fabulous blue eyes.
But this, I remember this moment that I thought the whole thing of eagles just hanging and...
Yeah, completely emotionless.
And look how good this is when he penetrates her.
No, but isn't it?
Like, isn't it hating in there?
Because of the planet?
Yeah, but Nick connection... maneuver up and just hover.
How good is an eagle?
They're the best.
I want one.
I do. one in a box.
And also, look at the detail of the sets. thing. just beautiful.
Or Keith Wilson.
So Brian Johnson designed the ships, but every set you see is Keith Wilson.
The Ken Adam of space of space.
Woggle Woggle.
Apparently they're extremely uncomfortable to sit in those pilot seats for that to actually climb down into the set, but I love that Wilson had looked at the 4 portals at the front of the eagle and realised that they would actually have to be the windows.
Oh, yes, it's okay. actually sit in the lower level.
You actually see that shouldn't reverse the end of the episode when they're getting out of there. their flight seats.
Okay.
They climb out of, out of like gratuitous crotch moments.
Yes, there's a lot of gratuitous crotch shots at the end of the episode.
Marie Celeste.
There's no way.
I know what Marie Celeste means you bloody Australia. not a brand of fragrance.
He just read his 1st book, I guess, probably.
Yes, Sandra's saying, we're a bit fucked now.
Rod's reaction to Sandra's reaction here was, oh, was another one of them your boyfriend this week?
She moved on quickly, you know.
It wasn't much choice.
Yeah, absolutely.
Those sliding privacy doors there.
That set is so great.
It's so good.
Imagine if Captain Picard had had like a whole giant wall that just climbed.
Can you imagine if his ready room had been as large as the bridge?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
If his bridge has been as large as...
I didn't realise the bridge set on trek.
Sorry, we'll get back to that. is the only is the same size in TNG as it is in the original series.
I thought it was a big set.
It's not.
Like, do they upscale it for Picard or is it basically the same?
I believe it's basically the same.
We should go back to the show.
Yeah, yeah.
So let's talk about Stretch Jersey.
So when are we doing the Star Trek Picard podcast?
I'm doing it already.
You did it last week.
I will say this scene is the 1st time I noticed there is also a zip on the side of the trousers on the same side as the arms.
Well, I had not noticed...
A quick, Brendan EC accent.
Obviously, there's a lot of models on the station.
They're all fucking in the solarium.
They need a way of kind of...
Let's not be our kind, but they're a little bit simplicic.
Quick release.
But there we are on those gorgeous magistrate chairs.
I didn't, I, in the 70s, I didn't realise the floor was or, or this burnt sienna colour, it looked, it looked white gray on the standard TV.
Martin's actually doing a great job here and they all are.
I have to say David's hair is really bad in this episode, like kind of noticeably bad.
Why?
It's just a bit longer instead of a bit...
This is the one when we realise that he's the Geordie data type all the time.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm not sure that I kind of like that so much.
So they just introduce it here.
Presumably it's never mentioned again.
He's got a chip.
And there's a Leby behind them looking fabulous.
I didn't realise that was...
He's the gan of the podcast.
Yeah.
Oh, I see.
That's actually an actress called Jody.
I didn't think it was a Levy, but I haven't, I can't say with his glasses.
She's ghoul.
Jodie Sherwood.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
They're all a bit pretty as Bob Matthias, everyone.
Oh, yeah, look at her.
She is beautiful.
Now, hang on.
Is this one of the 1st scenes in British TV where half more than half the cast are actually non-white in this scene?
About...
Yeah.
No, it's equal.
Yeah, no, because Bob's just off.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
Also, yeah.
I mean, that didn't happen.
Unless you're doing roots and that's not on yet.
And that's Helen and Lot not looking smouldering at all, having him strapped in.
I think she's a bit dewy.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, he's he's charming and he's smart.
And he's got lips.
He's the computer guy.
Lips that could unzip you without using his teeth.
And he's got mag safe installed as well.
Yeah, look.
Funnily enough, Martin Landau had a bunch of tapes.
Oh, really?
Of the episodes.
And they still exist.
They were shown at a convention last year.
Oh, look, they...
They include alternative shots, including here.
The original fitting was more like a socket in the in the version Martin has and there's also an extra shot of Jodie Sherwood reacting in in this next moment instead of Bob.
They're very slight.
There's a few episodes that are very slightly different.
Why doesn't she give him a freaking tranquilliser?
Well, he's doing some acting here.
He was basically one of these microphones.
Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah.
There was like an XLO port at them doing it.
Yeah, the three-pond pin that went into the back of his head.
Say that again.
I was thinking a 3.5 millimetre like jam.
No, it was actually a bit like...
Okay.
It's it's not super clear to see. like concentric circles.
So maybe more like coax, but the size of the plate.
So it's like they went, they kind of put a plate over the top going, we don't want to be too recognisable.
Sorry, we just lost.
Here she is now.
Okay, he just...
I'm trying to stick a microphone cable...
John, I must grasp your tit.
Yeah.
It's terribly important.
Oh my god, Jody Sherwood there was kind of look at Barbara Bay and like, oh, you're doing it. doing that.
You're doing it now, good.
Okay.
Okay, girl, we're onto you.
This is cliffhanger acting, is it?
Well, there's Tanya walking across the front.
So now, this is our 2nd episode, can I say, where the entire crew get to go to heaven and then John comes and fucks it up for all of them and brings them back to this miserable fucking station.
So he's Odysseus.
Yeah, he is Odysseus in this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But he does it, of course, in Death of the Dominion as well, where they all decide to go to heavenly.
Way to ruin a great party.
Dipshit.
More...
Yeah, yeah.
But of course, now we have Victor, who is already under the, you sort of in the thrall of the guardian of Beery, I guess.
Well, he was the most susceptible, really.
Well, because he's got an electric heart.
You see?
Yeah.
And a swivel chair that goes through 60 degrees, then turns into a horizontal surface with one touch of the button.
We never get to see Victor's actual office because his lab is actually the force of life set.
Oh, sorry.
No, I'm sorry.
They reuse the commander's office many times over in the land from Black Sun.
It was just the X-X-Pad.
It was just a sex.
No, because remember he was he was with the with like junior Julian Glover.
No, I definitely had that marble.
Yeah, yeah.
So this is written by David Weir.
He who gave us monkey and killer cats of ginseng.
Oh look, can we just pause for that beautiful...
There's some great on the Blu-ray, of course, we can see the strings lowering the eagle.
I didn't see any string.
No, I can't see that.
You see surprisingly few.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. not too bad.
Twice.
Yeah, it wasn't sure.
There are only a couple shots where you can see the wire in this episode. of it's okay.
And it's not the weird dippy shots.
I was watching them going, is that being supported from the side?
It's the simple ones with the black background that you'd think you could have probably actually easily...
We have a Dowel behind it sort of thing.
So between... where it's between the Dow and the camera.
They'll paint it out for the 4K remaster.
It's so great.
I mean, it's so weird.
Yeah, yeah.
You know what this reminds me of?
The, the, the final few episodes of Star Trek Discovery.
Okay.
Inside the... inside the artefact, which I can't watch inside the artefact.
And not everyone on the listeners.
But it's very much the same. all I will say.
That's all they will say. side of paradise.
It's exactly that episode.
In other words, it's Homer.
But in that case, I think it's space spores.
So, Nathan, did you say this episode was originally called by David Weir?
Nobody's perfect.
I think because it was actually the original script was about the overcoming of transphobia and same-sex marriage based on that last tag scene of Billy Wilder's Some Like It Hot.
1959.
It wasn't, but that is the last line.
I could never have children.
Of course, obviously, well, nobody's perfect.
Imagine if that had been the case. that's where he 1975.
Like, imagine how much further we would be in society.
Yeah, see, look, that's definitely Charles Winlet there, isn't it?
Yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But no, that is where he got the line from.
That was the pun.
Yeah, it's very, you know, that script with that film is...
Okay, no, you're looking great.
I wanted to see him plugged into a Christmas tree. for years.
Wrong.
The whole new one of those black cords.
Oh, isn't this great?
You missed, missed Marty.
Actually, interesting point on the hair.
His hair is shorter at the back in earlier shots.
And it does kind of, it does kind of look like he's had an accident that Barber and the Clippers have gone too hot.
Because he looks much better here.
And I gather these were shot first, which is why Gareth was on set. involved.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
So that giant arse thing, like whatever the fuck it is. looking into it right now.
Space prolapse for you, yeah.
We actually took the Christmas tree yesterday.
Did you?
Yeah, that's along epiphany.
Didn't we have those Christmas trees when we went to the ABC shop?
Yes we did.
Yes, I'm sure we just noticed the black, the flats.
I didn't realise, but like you never saw that on TV, is it?
Well, yeah, it's clearly just painted on, isn't it?
It's not the...
And here comes Catherine walking down the steps as she's clearly instructed.
Do not look at your feet, but also don't fall over.
She's about to present a logie.
She's wearing half an outfit.
You know what I'm getting?
Olivia Newton, John and Xanadu.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, this is what, 74?
I'm just getting the whole kind of Eurovision fabulousness.
I'm yeah.
She is so superb, isn't she?
Sweden?
10 points.
Catherine Shell?
Null le Pois.
A little bit a little bit blonded, a little bit tongue-y, not tongue.
Italian actras.
Poi.
So how did, do they call it purity before she says Piri?
No.
I think she says Perry.
She says Perry 1st and now we call it Perry.
But the thing is, everyone on Alpha calls it Piri.
Yeah, immediately.
Afterwards, yeah.
That's perfect sense.
Are they watching this on telly?
like they're watching this in main mission on the big telly?
Or the gardening has just affected their minds, so he's...
Oh, that's entirely... projected the word period into their minds because it is controlling all of them.
It's a lot a darker script in his original writing because Chris Penfold rewrote most of it.
Again, to make it more pleasing to the Americans, and you'll find out why when we get to the scenes.
I mean, human, you are wondering about my power.
About my breasts.
Christmas.
And look, I cannot believe that Gene Roddenbury hadn't seen this when a few years later he comes up with Ailea and Veeja.
Yeah.
The I Lia Pro. a cute idea.
Although, I think the Delton thing is probably one of the aliens that he always wanted to do.
Oh, you reckon?
And by do, yes.
Yeah.
Yeah. because he's Gene Rodbury.
You mean two?
Yeah, yeah.
Horny gene rod.
Yeah, it is space hottie standard outfit, isn't it?
But, I mean, Space Knight... in Next Generation, but with a competent actor.
Yeah, go on.
Oh, no.
Well, a competent script.
Yeah.
No, she's a competent actor.
She good enough.
Yeah, oh, yes.
Yeah, yeah.
No, I more meant it's not really fair to say anyone in justice is an incompetent actor with that script.
Although.
Well, they did agree, isn't she?
It's also like a clan rally that episode.
Like it's...
Oh, God, it is.
This one's not quite that.
Planet of the horny white people. wonderful.
She did an interview.
I just, just as this one was released.
And yeah, we did get it 6 weeks before the US and the UK.
We got all of them because Nick Tate talks about coming back to Australia to film Devil's Playground in Melbourne, but before that, because his mum was, I think, in Cremorne, and he bought a colour TV set and she watched this one.
Oh, wow.
I okay.
Because he gets his tits out.
Oh, my God.
Mom, I get my tits out in this. should watch it.
So, yeah, Catherine Scull did an interview in, like, hug me, bitch.
Yeah, I'm not hugging him as well.
In Photoplayfilm monthly.
I don't think of you.
And she said, talking about her leading role in the film, Callen. which was released in 74.
Yeah, go on.
Do you think June Hudson saw this when she was designing the, uh, the lizard hugging um, Servland's tits?
in Blake seven?
is a bit like that, isn't it?
Well, I'm going back to Maspah now. going back to my butthole.
But...
Space hole.
The discussion they just had about, you know, this is the peace period offers also put me in mind of the season 3 Star Trek original series episode, Wink of an Eye, which it features a planet apparently deserted.
But, um, what happens is the people on it are actually massively accelerated in time and they bring Kirk over and basically say, look, we need to lure people here in order to further our species.
And isn't this perfect and isn't this lovely and isn't this wonderful until Kirk realises the slightest damage ages you to death?
Right, okay.
Yeah.
And, you know, I'm not saying this copied that.
But it's playing on a it's playing on a similar idea.
It copies this side of paradise.
It's exactly the same.
It really is, except that that one's even more literal.
I mean, look at the floor.
Like, what the hell is going on?
It's amazing, isn't it?
But that's how they used to, honestly, in the 60s in the UK, you could get floors that are not that deep.
It looks incredible.
Oh, Nick's looking a bit ready for a party. actually filmed in Nick's apartment.
He's totally leering.
Look at that.
And now what's happening?
Oh, he's going for a little fly.
Let me take you for a ride.
So again, why is the commander the only one immune?
Because he's a fucking killjoy.
This is an asshole.
I love the little like the ping-pong balls in the air.
The for no reason, inexplicably just suspended in the air.
I think it's one level.
And finally, some biffo.
And you'll notice that in the stunt scenes.
Bite him, bite him.
In the stunt scenes, this guy does all his own stunts.
Yeah, Nick does.
But whoever the fuck that guy is.
Random equity.
I was watching this on my iPad and I didn't notice.
That's the only shot where he's not convincingly looking like Martin Landau because you get a full shot of his face.
Like, from the side profile. you know, it's it's as convincing as this time gets.
Trust me, we've been watching a lot of Avengers.
And Rocky, Rocky Taylor, bless his handsome cleft chinned face looks nothing like Patrick, but... 4 feet shorter.
Are you watching it on a screen with the resolution of a postage stamp in the corner of your room?
No.
Yeah.
I mean you're not watching it properly.
I think there's probably only one shot where it is the is the stunt double, and it's the one where they try and have that kind of bar out of focus in the foreground over his face, but...
With the multiple punches.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And this is a bit Twilight Zony.
You know, just for a minute or so.
No, no, but I mean, that's the sort of thing that, I mean, in a way, it's kind of the reverse of the Margaret Leighton episode where he gets religion and decides that we should all crash into this planet for no reason.
And then everyone says, no, you're a crazed kind of Scientologist and we're going to lock you up and not do what you say. 10 year Alexandria.
Victor's party.
Yeah, speak just having a party.
Just put your keys in the bowl by the door.
And Bob's got like...
Look, there's, look, there's Xenia Merton dancing in the background.
Blossom 21.
Zenny Merton dancing in the background.
We don't need to recover Marco Polo episode 4 or whatever we have to.
Yeah, all we have to do is do some mocap on that.
Yeah.
That's the punch bowl from the Midas touch episode of the new Avengers we did.
Look at them, man.
I would not be doing alcohol. not be drinking.
That's why they're so high.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think his entire stash of...
I know how he's got his style.
Yeah, it's been sitting there for the last sort of 7 or 8 years.
Oh no.
Poor old.
He doesn't actually really properly manage to do the broken right arm all the time, doesn't he?
Yeah, well, he punched Alan with it.
He will raise himself up on it without wincing and stuff a little bit later as well.
But you know, you can say that it's a tendon.
Not that he's just broken his wrist or his dislocated shoulder.
The nice thing about this episode is, I just sort of throw this in, that the extras, and it was a very tight-knit thing for season one.
It's the same extras each time, but they get speaking parts in this episode.
A few of them do.
And you also see them down on the planet.
Oh, there's that guy, Mike, was it like, you know, there is real continuity in this.
Thank you, Sylvia, because she was in charge of that.
Also, Marty, honestly.
I know, but he's such a miserable cunt, you know?
They're all having fun and he's going to put a stop to it.
That's a great name for a podcast, man.
You just go through every episode of everything.
Oh, look, someone's written something rude on the wall.
Do you know what a Piri is?
Well, it says pee pee, yeah.
So it's a Winnie.
PP. Someone's order for a portal.
It's people dash I. Yeah, I believe.
Here, drink some of this.
It's Victor's punch. you fucking blow your car.
Oh, no, this is so great because he walks off and then Bob just drinks it.
It's true.
Bob is very pretty.
He is super pretty.
So pretty.
Oh, well, that's true.
I'm going to have it.
That's wonderful.
I think that's so funny And that's a great thing.
And I gather, yeah, this girl, yep.
There she goes.
She dropped her suitcase.
That's Emily Bolton from Moonraker.
All right.
But she's also in pretty much every episode.
Oh my god, they're also hot.
That's Andy Cohen from Real Housewives.
He gets his shirt off later, and he's very, very thin.
Like even for the 1970s.
He's quite thin.
It's lovely, Tanya.
Yeah, no.
How is everyone so ridiculously hot?
Why does Tanya never get credited?
Does she get credited?
No.
I think I think once or twice she gets credited as operative, maybe?
Okay, I don't think so.
Maybe I'm reading.
Well, I haven't I haven't seen an episode yet, but she's credited.
So this one, yes, she's uncredited.
Yeah, amazing of reading the Catacombs website.
You know, her best role, she said, she died sadly at the age of 77, but her best role, she thought the funnest role was when she played Leanie Reef and style.
The Nazi.
Oh, wow.
In the Indiana Jones film.
The Last Crusade.
And guess what?
It's all on the cutting room floor.
And I don't understand why it wasn't restored for one of the many re-releases. did an extended version.
Come on, Disney. put her on a due back.
I just want to say that there was Paul being happy instead of being a miserable bastard. once.
And like John is going to ruin that.
Even that. can't have that.
You're not allowed to have nice things.
No, they're on white alert because no one's, everyone's too high depressed.
Yeah, no, we chill. spatial alert because they're all just accepting their fate.
Yeah.
Look at Barbara.
She's doing acting with a face.
It's incredible.
My Qualude's just kicked in, John. exactly.
It's one of the, it's one of those school posts.
Remember when we were at acting school?
I remember doing Stan's last, it was just like this. another one.
And that's Barry Moore saying.
So, how about another party?
Have you tried my punch?
I did say like Victor being weird is less effective because Victor's fucking weird.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I don't just mean like the whole, you know, uncle sex dungeon thing.
That's not weird.
That's kind of normal by this point.
Yeah, yeah.
Hey, wait.
How many L's in auxiliary on that label, everyone.
It's auxiliary as a pronounced space of S. McCoy, Doctor Who.
Auxiliary.
Sorry, auxiliary.
Yes.
I think we have Comlock with 2 M's here on one of the signs as well.
And obviously they both expect that explosion to go off a little bit earlier.
And now poor Tanya's not...
Ouch.
That was a proper bit of hair acting.
I don't think that should happen when you unplug the computer.
No, it shouldn't.
That seems, yeah.
Although, that's poorly wired.
It's mostly David's fault.
I enjoyed smacking Paul.
Paul is flat now.
Just calm down.
She's going to get a hypers. not mad.
I'm the only sane one in the village.
As usual.
John, just look at me, John.
And yeah, he keeps gesticulating with his broken hand.
There you go.
There she goes.
Oh, it's my favourite.
She does it every single episode.
There you go.
The way he collapses here.
Oh, top quality Marty acting there. was tremendous.
We've had a couple of good feints this December.
Yeah, yeah, Victor.
It is it is obviously very kind of Twilight Zone.
But this show does that from time to time.
Oh, I'm not saying that is a bad thing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Absolutely not.
Yeah.
See-through rubies.
Especially in series A. We're not calling it series.
Serious alpha.
Why do the door jam?
Because his com lock facility.
No, but why do they have Apple cutouts in them?
Why do they have Apple iPhone?
The notch then.
Yeah, why do they need notch?
No girl needs a notch.
Like that.
That's so blue.
Those eyes are so they're beautiful, aren't they?
The colour corrected them to match his tunic.
So the computer, do you know who plays the computer?
Shelley.
Yeah, so it's Barbara Shelley.
She was in a big soap in the 60s.
Okay, no one is alive who's listening to us, so it doesn't matter to mention it.
But I could look it up.
Yeah, but she's in a series D episode of, of, um, like seven, of course.
Being far too good for this.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, she's kind of far too good for this as well.
And she does get to act because she gets taken over.
No, my period.
No, we're not thinking of the woman who is the gorgeous actress who's in from Venus with Love, because that's not Barbara Shelley.
No, no, no.
No.
No, no, we're thinking of Barbara Shelley, who is in star drive.
Oh, that's that's the same actress who plays Venus in from Venus with Love, but I don't believe that's Barbara Shelley.
Who?
Oh, sorry.
It's definitely Barbara Shelley and Blake Cards.
We need to check on cards.
All right, well, I could be horribly wrong.
How about we talk about script deviants while Brendan fact checks the old people?
And Martin Landau does what my cat does when it's left away.
Was Barbara Shelley in Blake 7?
Yes.
So I've got it horribly wrong.
So it is Barbara Shelley.
Well, I'm just checking the Avengers now, because I think you might be right about the Avengers.
Oh, no, it is Barbara Shelley.
Oh, horribly, horribly wrong.
I'm really glad that I'm horribly wrong because she's a Fabe actress.
Excellent.
She's Venus.
And she's in Planet of Fire, but I don't think she got to, gets to go to Lanzarote with Peter Quinn Guard.
She doesn't.
But anyway, okay, so in this moment, in in in David Weir's original, James, in David Weir's original script, Helena and Bergman tried to force Kernig to join the evacuation to Piri, but he gains the upper hand and takes Helena and Barb hostage, which I think would have been a lot hotter.
And to resolve the situation.
Helena says, well, why don't we just leave John alone and he can work himself out because, you know, that's what John does.
And so they leave him behind to work himself out weirdly.
And then the others 2 leave.
But I like the hostage idea.
Anyway, so they all...
So they all, you know, anyway, and in turn, Kearney hopes that they'll all wake up.
And later, his final confrontation with the Guardian is also very different, but we'll get to that bit.
The Exeter scene was very disturbing as a young person.
Nathan, you don't remember this.
No I don't remember this one.
There are huge numbers of eagles in this one.
That's more than I remember to see.
It's all the Eagles.
Yeah, yeah, it's all good.
I've only seen 5 flying at once so far, but Oaks.
Yes, but you repeat the shots, so it looks like there are 15 of them.
I like the idea that they're now in orbit around period and so they can go come and go, you know, like they say we can come back and get John if we need him if he's finally convinced.
You're not pronouncing that properly.
John.
If he's finally convinced that going to heaven would be great.
Totes.
Yeah.
But again, this is the part of the same shot flipped?
No.
No, it is I did go back and check this afternoon and they are sort of at different angles.
It looks very much like they did flip it, but yeah.
I mean, this is the part of the episode where I'm just admiring this air. like just looking at John Light.
It's, yeah, the lighting is...
Imagine giving that to...
David Maloney.
Yeah, yeah.
But I mean, look at it.
You know, like it's nice when it's well lit, but like that looks amazing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
It's all Keith Williams against David Maloney.
It was the BBC style at the time.
That's exactly right.
And this being an independent production.
They had more creative power.
Yeah.
I mean, look at that.
Look at that.
The depth of field, everything.
I didn't realise there were monitors built into the desks because this is very much the desk they use in season two.
And there were 2 L's in that auxiliary.
Yeah, again, yeah.
Well, you know, I think it's English language has evolved her time.
Yeah, it's 1999 though.
Yeah, but yeah, but it's not Bob Baker and Dave Martin's in the John C...
No, maybe it's...
It's just a mistake.
Was that never an acceptable form of auxiliary?
No?
Okay.
I also love that. you know, we've got we've got we've got Singlish.
Why can't we have Alf Glish?
We can't.
There's subtle things happening here in the set design.
Alf English.
You will see very differently when we do season two.
But there was something just to be really nerdy.
Something I really love is that the main mission operative desks have very thin metal frames.
I read this as him wanting to commit suicide.
I didn't know what's happening.
He's trying to put himself to sleep.
I thought it was to sleep.
Yeah.
I read it the same way and she's about to say, basically, yeah, you're taking sleeping pills so you can actually sleep.
Or is he taking amphetamines to stay away?
No, 3 days of despair, have reduced you to taking drugs?
sleep.
But yes, by the way, have you noticed, mate, vajazzling?
I think he's, I think, I think that's deliberately lamb shaded, so you don't think...
Yeah, I had commit suicide.
But I didn't think of that.
Because I'm so dark like you people.
Look at the outfit.
The thing is, that being said, he takes out one pill.
He doesn't take one pill.
He looks at the rest of the pills. there's ambiguity there.
Bob's Bob's off his toots.
And some of them have got them out.
Kennerman will do that to you.
The planet of the K people.
The Guardians of the K-hole.
So she said she's glowing.
I healed you, but hang on, wait for it.
I really like how they just go, like there's no special effect.
They just do a jump cart.
Let me take your fist and repair that wrist too.
Sorry, that would really hurt.
It's a song like that from Leather Nun.
Oh God, I think we've just been cancelled.
That was nearly the website photo.
It's not going to be that.
Oh, surely it's her reacting to Cardo disappearing.
No, it's properly startled. proper startling.
Properly startled.
It needs to be an animated gift of him disappearing and going...
Her appetites are swaged.
Yeah, look at that.
I think we all have been, dear.
Like, and then he yeah, he damages himself again.
Go for it, baby.
It's so stupid, isn't it?
I think his method.
His method.
I think he complains about, doesn't he complain about Kernick being a big dick in this episode?
Yeah, particularly the scene where he storms main mission earlier and interrupts their meeting.
He's like, he's an idiot.
I'm getting strong Earl Sigma pretending he's actually got a xylophone.
Yeah.
So, I'm not a Zydophone.
Mouth organ.
Yes, El Sigma, pretending he's got actually got a mouth organ in happiness patrol vibes.
Oh, no, no, blood.
Actually, some blood.
Okay, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
I mean, but she's wearing hardly anything.
It's wonderful isn't it?
Like just a little gold chain holding it all together.
They get her for season 2 and what do they do?
Yeah, put her in a horrible... turtleneck.
It's insane.
They should have just left her like this.
On cold days.
Well, again, do you remember how pretty we thought that Brian Blessed was in Death's Other Dominion?
And then when he comes back as her father, he just looks like a massive fucking idiot.
He looks like a massive dropped pie.
Yeah, in a winter.
With all the with all the minted peas all over his eyebrows.
That's right. only a year later.
What are they thinking?
Oh, we don't often get to see the rear end.
I'm actually talking about the eagle.
No, but you don't get to see the nozzles.
Look in the set, it's the ABC one.
No, it is.
I just, I just everything in this.
There's more detail every time you watch it.
It's wonderful.
I want a row of buttons that just says A, B, C, D, E, F. Do you know what I mean?
I can press.
And I would also like a grid of buttons that just has like Helvetica black kind of numbers and things at random on them.
Now, this is...
What you're saying is you want to write?
I remember my 20s. they were much like this No.
Well, you knew, Robert.
You want to run the New York subway as well.
Yeah, yeah, essentially.
I think I want to have that floor.
Yeah, yeah.
I want Christmas every year. at that.
Also, I think they should all take the tops off.
Oh, by the way, there's a great moment. coming up.
Anyway, I'll call it when Helena, you know, does a bit of sign.
John, just to wait for it.
Oh, really?
Yeah, yeah.
But again, it gets a pretty good party.
Yeah, go on.
It's not absolutely definite even in the script that this is bad, is it?
Because she's talking about fulfilling our potential as thinking human beings.
Oh, hello.
They're not doing a lot of that, though, are they?
I suppose none of them have actually pissed their... there's Winlet down there.
If by thinking you mean my bare chest and by human beings, you mean my nipples.
Oh, look, Sandra's wearing pants.
Yeah, yeah. best bangs in the room.
She looks great.
Best Spock haircut.
Does Gareth turn up in this scene?
No, he just turns up on one of the Eagles.
Just that one we evacuate.
Yeah, yeah.
And look, look.
He mounts Paul.
Paul is happy.
For once.
Enjoy it while it lasts, boys.
Yeah.
See, Nathan, I said on the way here that I thought there was, you were going to have a significant problem with this episode because the resolution revolves around the fact that we still have 13 more episodes this season and that's why we can't stay.
Hi.
Oh my god.
I really want to run my head.
This is only episode eight, though, as it was short.
I think.
Yeah.
They've really jumped the shark by shark came in.
There you go.
She had to cover him up because he jumped him in.
Yeah, yeah.
She had her tits out.
It's definitely hung out just a 2nd ago.
Yes, that's very risque.
Helena, why did you have them out?
Because there was a lovely breeze and you weren't here.
Yeah, there's no life.
It was a lovely breeze.
But like what's wrong with this?
Why is he breaking it?
getting him out now.
Because he's an asshole.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, that's John.
That's John.
It's just like Ultima Thule, Thule.
You know, he can't let us go to heaven.
We have to go back on board the fucking station and have a miserable time.
Oh, also, this is not your standard transporter eagle.
This is your dental eagle.
That's...
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, no, sorry, your chiropodos Dagle, if we've watched knife episodes of the Avengers, because that's usually what Diner Rick gets strapped to, isn't it?
Wasn't there a medical eagle that she referred to earlier?
Well, I guess this is it.
This is the medical league.
So he's pressing the pull her out of heaven button, which we used on Buffy, obviously.
ECT.
Also, you're meant to use emollient.
That stuff burns your hair.
Oh no, not by 1999.
It's solved, though. still an electrical current, isn't it?
So surely.
It's a space electric.
I remember this moment because I found it so disturbing.
Is it her claw hands and stuff?
Yeah, and the ABC logos, James pointed out.
Like, it's really just...
Also her week's going to come off. now she's fine.
Let me take this off you, darling.
Oh, yeah.
She's shopping.
It's horrible.
It's a nice.
Elsa, you don't just get up and go, well, that was something.
You can't speak and you bite your tongue.
No, they put that thing in your mouth.
It's kind of refreshing, I think.
She should be gagging for it.
And rocky horror.
They are doing the method thing really nicely, aren't they?
I believe that they are in peril.
So the reveal is that the periods are all dead.
But they're not still in heaven.
They didn't last forever.
They all died.
They all atrophied.
I interpreted as they were absorbed by the computer and exist in the computer's kind of.
I got the impression they just died of starvation.
Because you're not doing nothing.
But it's not clear.
It's not clear.
Well, I'm happy for that to be the thing.
Do you know what I mean?
Because this is, you know, this is weird space 1999 as opposed to, yeah, as opposed to men in nylon suits playing aliens, space 1999.
You know, like it's like proper, strange, you know, philosophical space 1999.
Yeah, so this is a place that has no life because no one's, I don't know, in pain.
Hmm.
Yeah.
It's like Queensland.
Yeah, well there you go.
Takes pain.
Well, there's plenty of pain in Queensland.
Well, you'd think, but they're not feeding it.
Just ask Peter Dotton.
Yeah, we are peaceful.
We are shirtless.
You can tell it's the pre big gym days.
One amongst you threatens your happiness and comes to destroy your peace.
You must all vote for ABBA in the next year.
It's the one that's still wearing his tunic.
There's some hotties, aren't there?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Winlet there.
But Nick Tate.
I can't take my face off, Nick. my eyes off Nick Dave.
It's like, if there's...
Yeah, he was like, if these bitches are getting their tops off, so am I. They're just extras.
She's great.
She just looks so Scandalwegian.
And therefore slightly threatening.
I do actually like how kind of horrible and brutal what happens to her is...
Oh, it is horrible.
Oh, hello.
Somebody's face off.
Yeah. big ball.
Oh, look.
Nick, stop playing with your balls.
We just shot Bob.
Bob.
He just bobbed off behind that ball.
He's great in this too.
He really...
That special effect works quite well. really good, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
And that's the original.
That's not...
No, yeah.
No, not at all.
Well, it's, you know, it's an accent animated proper thing.
Yeah, that's the thing.
I think a lot of sci-fi at this era goes.
Okay, so when you shop by a laser, you have to stand still for 3 seconds so we can animate the beam.
Well, to be fair, Star Trek. like 90 Star Trek does that all the time.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You need to you need to stand still so I can paint finally with film.
They just died.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Of apathy.
And that he just sort of goes in and grabs her and pulls her face off.
She was a fembot all the time.
She didn't like ginger pop at all.
It's Barnic Woman.
Who did this to the doll?
Point to the Catherine Shell doll where the man touched you.
Or leftover from Victor's party.
Oh, I love that you can actually see the edge of the set there.
Well, that ball bouncing backwards and forwards, is it?
Oh, no, and now there's bubble in the air. like there's bubbles. in the air.
Look at that. isn't it wonderful?
Oh, the moon's going...
That's actually properly frightening, I think.
That is actually a problem.
It's like, yeah, like, shit, we have to go back to the ships.
So we smacked the dollop and then it's, oh, Nick, thanks for that.
And then suddenly, yeah, hello.
Sorry, what?
Just hang on.
Okay.
So in the original script, boys, while you're watching for all the titty action.
Yeah, yeah.
And titty action.
Uh, yeah, it's a final confrontation with Christmas girl.
After the destruction of its robot servant, the voice of Piri actually speaks, and which I can see why they cut out and didn't film it, and Konig declares that he'd never choose the Pirian mockery of life, and is prepared to face death, I should say, is the only alternative.
His infectious humanity makes the guardian aware that its quest for perfection has only resulted in a dead world.
And so parasides to destroy it.
There's Gareth.
That was it.
That was it, yeah.
So yeah, so in fact, in the original script, in David West script, the Guardian destroys the planet in its own altruistic manner, which hasn't really displayed any time before that.
So I'm not surprised they got rid of it.
But he was a Buddhist.
No, he was.
Well, he was interested in it.
Guardian of Perry was the Buddhist.
Yes, Tom.
Yes, that's fine.
But Chris Penfold rewrote most of it, and it's interesting because this is one of the only ones I can think of where there is no writer's credit. on the episode.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, I noticed that.
They dropped a lot of sparklers on this set.
I'm surprised to get up in flames and open the beanbag.
There's Gareth.
There's Gareth's other Ed. Yeah, well, the other Ed does appear in several other episodes.
He becomes a regular background artiste whereas Gareth does not.
Do we know in what way Gareth displeased Charles Crichton?
He argued.
Tell me, look it up.
Go and fuck himself.
Well, that's the thing.
I was looking at in sort of the usual places and couldn't find anything beyond he had a disagreement with the director.
I just thought it might have been something.
About what?
He was sat in a fucking chair, you know, saying liftoff.
No, it's actually a lot bigger because his role, he had the...
He was Irving.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He had a much bigger role and it was a speaking part, and he was the 1st one down on the planet.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. wasn't Nick.
It wasn't no, no, it wasn't Chinler Sky.
Yeah, he was the quick recast.
So why can't they just get back on the ships and go back to the plane?
Because vow in the nightmare of Eden?
That shot is...
The planet ranks in Nightmare of Eden on the COT machine.
I can't go back.
It's full of mangle groupers.
But in fact, we do hang a hat on that.
They do actually say we could have stayed and we would be in a beautiful place.
And that's where the title comes from, doesn't it, Richard?
No, it's about transmission.
Oh, okay.
Well, or rather, that's where the title is used because the gatekeeper of Perry.
Well, pretty much, um, Helen is like, oh, well, so if we had a stayed, it would have been fine and Konig says, well, the Guardian's timing wasn't great and Victor says nobody's perfect.
And that's the last line of David win script.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And the last line of some like it hot.
Yeah, and they just thought it was too jokey and too much of an in joke.
Do you want to give you Gareth's reasons?
Yes, please.
So basically it, as we understand it, between Charlie Crichton and Gareth Thunder. just that Gareth was very young and had a little bit of a lazen-by day.
And he argued about how he wanted to play it.
He wanted it to be, you've got to remember, this was the period of films like Stone.
So Alan, sorry, Tony Allen, who plays security head, who was in that episode.
Purple sleeve guy.
He's Australian.
He's in every episode.
He just made one of the most, you know, it was a film called Stone in Australia, and that's what people were talking about.
We were talking about films like Easy Rider, but also it was got it got much darker and heavier and hotter.
New York was on fire this year.
So they were going to, like they were saying, maybe we should just, you know, shut it down.
There were whole parts of New York that were just rioting and crime.
And so cinema is much darker.
Blokes were a bit heavier, had a big mow, and it was very matcho and very violent, and he wanted to up his character, and anyway, he lasted 8 hours.
Right, right.
You put that in homosexual.
But that's only the other people's take on it.
I'd have to, we can refer to it in the next recording because Gareth shows none of that to Jenny Laird and he shows none of that in the new Avengers.
He's completely warm and charming.
So yeah, there are 2 sides.
We'll talk about Gareth's side of it in our next dimension.
I did not realise that that was Gareth Hunt until Stephen pointed that out to me when I was in Singapore.
That's a, that's a, that's a, in Planet of the Spiders.
Yeah.
That's a Gareth you hunt.
Yes.
All right.
Well, I think we'll end it there.
I think that was actually really quite good.
So much better than I remember.
I've been thinking about it for days, actually, since watching it.
I think it is really good I think, you know, it does suffer slightly from being the 2nd episode in a few weeks where John pulls them all out of heaven.
But you know what?
I think it's I think it's better than last time.
Yeah, I think this one is a bit more understandable in that, you know, we can joke and say, oh, what, you just want everyone to suffer and that means they're alive.
It's like, no, he wants them to be able to converse and not just loll around and go, oh, isn't this lovely while they're being slowly digested?
Yeah, yeah.
Because the Pyrians are dead.
You know, they will die.
It's not eternal life at all.
It's fake.
Yeah, yeah.
I don't know.
I also think the thing about it is just the design is so incredibly striking and something that you never see anywhere else.
And not just the sort of ping-pong balls set and the ping-pong balls miniature.
But the, you know, the shot where we head towards the cliff in the eagle, I just, looks amazing.
Yeah.
Well, they whip their balls out.
Yeah, yeah.
I'd also just like to say one other thing because I've recently started rewatching Babylon 5.
There's an early episode.
I know.
There's an early episode called...
There's an early episode called Infection.
I'm not restarting that sentence again.
And it's interesting watching these 2 in the same week because they come at the idea of a dead civilisation in very different ways, but with some very similar ideas and the resolution is similar in talking about, you know, what is life?
And in the Babylon 5 case, What's happened is this race has created these bio weapons to wipe out anything that's not their own race because they've been invaded 10 times, but the parameters of what is your race was decided by fanatics.
So it just wipes out everyone because no one is perfect enough. nobody's perfect.
And basically the program, because it's biotechnology, running the bioweapon is basically talked to death by realising, because it's taken over the body of one of the archeologists that found it, holy shit, I've seen the planet a 1000 years after my mission and it is dead.
And, you know, Joe Michael Strazinsky, site space 1999's an influence for some of B5's weirdness.
So, again, not saying direct copy, but ideas repeat through sci-fi, which is great.
Like cabbage sandwiches.
They tend to repeat on you, yes.
Yes.
All right.
Well, I think we might end it there.
We have some of series D of maximum power still to go.
About 4 or 5 episodes.
Yeah, yeah.
So make sure that you that your podcatcher of choice is tuned into that.
Do we have anything else on the horizon?
The three-handed game has recently released our episode on Murdersville.
That's a favourite of mine.
Yeah, on the theme, this green, unpleasant land.
And I will start scheduling 500 year diaries season 2 very soon.
So that will come in a few weeks time, let's say.
All right.
So in that case, all that remains is for me to say.
Until next time, give us long rest or death, dark death, or dreamful ease.
And I'll put my top back on.
Please.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Good night.
Richard, stop stroking your nipples.
I'm squeezing my Styrofoams.
Thanks for asking.
Actually, they were my nipples.
I got confused.
There was a lot of movement.
There was.
See you next time. movement.